---
title: "The Long Shot"
date: 2026-06-23
category: "General"
excerpt: "Never thought this turns into such a long-time project"
tags: ["personal"]
---

The initiative to start this 'XiatStudio' thing dates back to 2007 when I was still a fifth-grader, when the Internet was still referred to as the World Wide Web. At that time Macromedia dominated web development (I think), there were tons of books and tutorials on Dreamweaver, Flash, Fireworks, etc.

I was hooked by Flash because Flash games were a thing back then, but never figured out how to properly utilise it, so I turned my focus on Dreamweaver, which you could use to build web pages — that sounded pretty cool.

Back then I had already immersed myself in Western culture, crazy about Pixar films, watching Formula One for 3 years already, which none of my classmates back then were even aware of. So I kinda had the eagerness to show those around me my interests, that's what drove me to build my personal web page called XiatStudio.

But as you can imagine, without knowing any artistic friends and myself being a horrendous designer (not being humble at all), the web page literally looked like pure color blocks piled up, with no structural work at all. For me it was good enough. Without any knowledge of web development, I was even naive enough to attempt to statically store my collections of movies and videos within the whole web project file.

With everything set and ready, the remaining problem was to find a server and register a domain to host the website, and that's why the page never went live — I had absolutely no idea how to accomplish it. My old man Bruce obviously did, I once saw the massive server room in his office, but apparently that was for office use. Eventually he didn't set it up and by some point I was disappointed with my page anyway, so I basically dropped it.

I think it was around the same year, blogging was a thing, so I registered a NetEase blog account and started writing bullshitteries, and backing up some of my photos in it. It was fun, and receiving comments from strangers. It had no interaction at the starting period and I was craving comments and interactions. Then one night I dreamt about receiving new comments all of a sudden. When I checked back the blog there were indeed 5 new comments!

NetEase didn't run their blogging business very well, by 2010, Baidu Hi and QZone were extremely popular, but soon enough Baidu nearly failed all of its businesses, leaving QZone the only platform still functioning even now. But in the end, those were still third-party platforms, and the only core customisable experience was the content itself.

And here we are, in 2026, with the help of AI, I don't have to wade through waves of frontend tutorials — I can set up my very own personal blog so quickly that I'm filling content already. With that said, I'm happy to have made the footer of the site count the copyright from 2007.
