---
title: "Harness Yourself before Harness AI"
date: 2026-06-25
category: "General"
excerpt: "Programmers tend to spend tons of time on fancy concepts rather than actually building and delivering"
tags: ["personal"]
---

Earlier this year around February, I made myself clear that there's no way that AI could substitute human programmers, because the essence of LLM nowadays, didn't differ that much from what I've researched in 2019 - it's just giving the output with the highest possibilities. I retracted my verdict one month ago, having seen AI finishing off my coding job with the exact coding style I'm practicing. There was a short period I thought 'damn we are all doomed'.

I'm not sure when the concept of 'harness engineering' emerged first but I first heard about it around this April. Basically it's a practice aiming to minimise AI hallucination to maximise overall productivity. At first I supported this, if we want automation then we go all the way, and AI hallucination truly is a pain in the ass. It's like when I travel to Japan I insist on speaking Japanese. It's not I'm worried about their capability of speaking English, it's I'm afraid that they THINK they understand what I said.

But digging further with this harness engineering thing, I feel like its backbone is basically a combination of rules, skills, MCP, agents, boundaries of agents and so on. It's conceptually correct and requires human effort to lay out the architectural work to arrange those AI agents. But in the end, those are just essentially prompts. Of course it will save token usage by refraining AI from reading code live on each session, but I don't think it deserves the attention of engineers' daily work when utilising AI. I've done none of the harness engineering so far, and my AI works very well on aiding me on design and finishing off the implementation, whether it was KMP or ArkTS, it just works, if you are willing to put effort on writing an extensive prompt. From my point of view, it was way more efficient than doing all those harness things. Deliver always matters. 

Now, I'm not denying the actual value of harness engineering. It occurred to me that my sophisticated prompt is essentially harness as well. But what does the idealised harness bring to us then? For existing team members who are working on the harness, it's fine as they deepen their understanding of this particular module further. But what about others? If AI not only does the heavylifting, but also eliminates the will of newcomers to dive deep into the code themselves? You can't expect all engineers to be highly self-disciplined. In the end, engineers distract themselves to build a system that eventually demolishes human effort on necessary things.

On the other hand, maintenance of harness is something we often ignore. It's fairly simple, saved prompts are documents. If we can't even keep testcases, README and documentation up-to-date, how can you confidently say that the harness-related deliverables would be applicable at any given time? You can't even keep a CLAUDE.md up-to-date.

Now there's even a new thing called 'loop engineering' and I don't even want to put any more effort on this. If you want loop feedback you can always direct your agent to conclude the session into the memory when finishing off a ticket or delivering a new feature. Programmers tend to distract themselves from their work by tweaking intriguing gadgets (whether physical gadgets or software plugins). Earlier this year I saw a boom of AI skills on GitHub, which was crazy. There're countless skills on the web, and people keep emphasizing how important it is to script them, but yet I still can't determine how to properly develop a skill and how to test and measure if this skill works? Combined with this uncertainty of LLM, harness engineering seems just like fancy automation to me.

There's a high chance that I'm wrong about this harness engineering thing. But at least for now my time is better used on building and deliver actual functionalities rather than trying to control a non-logical thing with logical workflow and hoping it'll run as expected forever. Since we all should agree that AI is for aiding, not total control, then why we are still attempting to develop a workflow that aiming to let AI do all the work?